okay let's talk about this further with
Maran bashara Al jazer senior political
analyst he's in London for us and um
Maran I mean let's focus on what's been
happening at Israel's St Taman prison
that's a military installation as we
said in the neev desert in southern
Israel where there have been all of
these allegations of severe abuse one
detainee uh allegedly raped with an iron
bar I mean how difficult is it to shine
a light on what's going on inside these
specifically military
facilities well so certainly getting
more and more difficult and even when it
wasn't difficult it didn't lead to much
as we know from the you know recent and
not so recent history that whatever
investigations or commissions are
conducted nothing much comes out of them
Israel
tortures Israel tortures Israel has long
tortured Palestinians for over six
decades Israel has has been torturing
except today it's kind of a gun of the
Rails now it tortures in mess and it
tortures in a more sistic and in a
more cheap way there are no more
rational reasons for the way it tortures
it tortures now to hurt it tortures
because the torturers are so sadistic so
tribal so vengeful so out of order
that they basically can do whatever they
want and as we've seen from the images
they think they can just get away with
it without even the appearance of an
investigation Israel was once upon a
time a country that kept up the
appearances of being a country of
Institutions especially the military it
was supposedly a military with a state
but even today the military has been
infiltrated by so many radical Fanatics
and extremists
including among its high ranking
generals that it's very difficult with
fanatic government and a ftic military
to see any
justice um served for the
Palestinians now talking about you
suggest a degree of impunity there for
the for the Israeli military I mean
Israeli military police we know have
detained at least nine military
reservists from that specific Camp they
did that on Monday as a result of these
allegations I mean what does that say to
you Maran about Israel's ability to
police itself at the
moment Israel cannot police itself it
won't police itself not when you have a
fanatic government not when you have a
security minister that's already been
accused of terrorism that's already been
accused of uh so much extremism that
they would he wouldn't even be allowed
to serve in the Israeli milit when you
have that kind of a minister you have
Sovereign ministers in this government
that are so Fanatics that some of their
own parliamentarians in KES yesterday
they were
justifying the the sodomy and the
torture of of the most ugly forms
against
Palestinian but this is this is while
terribly shocking is hardly surprising
this we have a state that's being
indicted on genocide we have Israeli
leaders who who are pursued or will be
pursued by the international criminal
court we have a country and a government
and a society that is in total violation
of international law according to the
international court of justice for its
violations every day of those under
occupation of annexing land of stealing
land of stealing water of torture and
torture is probably the worst of it
because well it's not wor of it but it's
sort of the most I don't know just
listening to N you know with that report
because you know that all of these
things are happening but as the world
continues to talk
about uh you know 10 dozen Israeli
captives and hostages in Gaza for every
one of those captives and hostages now
there are a 100 in Israeli prisons being
tortured or being forced into So-Cal
enforced disappearance what is that it's
kidnapping for God's sakes kidnapping
doctors lawyers students young people
old people's spouses yeah basically any
kind of relatives it's just being runed
up taken to prison without telling their
loved ones where they are why they're
there and they don't stand trial and
many of them are getting tortured and
few dozens killed so this is the
situation where you have thousands upon
thousands of Palestinian kidnapped
hostages held in Israeli prisons in
force disappearance no one in the world
talks about them and you have 10 dozen
Israelis in Hamas
captivity and we don't stop listening or
hearing about them this is the Injustice
this is the asymmetry it's terrible that
there are 10 dozens of Israeli
especially civilians there's no doubt
about that but tens of thousands of
Palestinians and certainly some of them
serving uh um you know uh sentences of
what 10 20 30 40 years in Israeli
prisons many of them as I said tortured
a lot of them not even being on trial
not even facing any
charges this is not a city of law this
is not a country of laws this is a rogue
State all right Maran many thanks always
good to hear your thoughts Mar Bashar
I'll just there a senior political
analyst there
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer